greetings everyone me again Laszlo
Montgomery with another CHP episode 206
this time today we're gonna look at a
famous Nederlander well maybe not that
famous for those of you professional or
amateur sinologists who have already
heard of Robert van Gulick this will be
a refresher course for those of you who
haven't you're in for a treat
quite a guy Robert Hans van gulick or
gal de la Paix as he was known in
Chinese was one of hundreds of
Westerners who achieved renown in his
day 1950s and 60s for his scholarly work
on Chinese culture and history now like
the man who loved China who we featured
in a previous two part series Joseph
Needham van Gulick also had this
brilliant analytical mind and an uncover
nerble passion in studying all kinds of
aspects of Chinese culture including the
language today's hero came from that
period when well to the average working
stiff China was still an exotic
mysterious place that they only read
about in magazines and books fan Kulik
steam was still one word everyday people
like Sly Stone saying about they didn't
think much about going to China any more
than they thought about taking a trip to
the moon these places were so much
farther away back then than they are
today to the masses outside China these
artists and writers were their main
windows into that distant world then
Gulick was another one of those
Westerners who was able to marry his
scholarship of China with his literary
pretensions and bring something new and
quite popular and thrilling Robert Van
Gulick is right up there with all those
top grossing names of 20th century
Western sign ologists and over the
course of his life he contributed many
scholarly essays and other academic
works on all kinds of subjects from
ancient Chinese erotic art poetry to
Gibbons he would go wander into
nitch subject there was the more
esoteric the better and he enjoyed the
perfect career that allowed him to
indulge in this lifelong passion but all
that aside I guess if he had to point to
one thing above all else that this
extraordinary man achieved and became
best known for its the 16 detective
novels he wrote where he introduced to
the english-speaking world the
incredible judge Dee a historic figure
from the Tong dynasty who later on in
the 20th century became the alter-ego of
Robert Van Gulick van Gulick was born
August 9 1910 and Sutfin about 90
minutes by car east of Amsterdam thanks
to his father a medical officer in the
Dutch colonial army van Gulick had one
of those interesting and privileged
lives we've seen on TV and in the prints
his father was based in the hague when
fan Kulik was born a three years later
the family was living in Indonesia the
Dutch East Indies he lived in Surabaya
and Jakarta called Batavia back then and
that's where his earliest memories were
and it was in Jakarta that van Gulick as
a young boy aged 3 to 12 first came into
contact with Chinese culture and had an
instant fascination he began studying
Chinese during those years and had an
obvious gift for languages by the time
the family returned to the Netherlands
in 1922 and he already spoke four and at
the age of 12 he started high school and
came into contact with a famous dutch
linguist and anthropologist christian s
cornelius uhlan beck uhlenbeck was
famous among other things for work he
did developing a dictionary of the
language of the Blackfoot Indian tribe
of Montana and neighboring provinces in
Canada van Gulick assisted the professor
on this work and in return uhlenbeck
taught him Russian and Sanskrit but van
gool extreme ain't is a tank t-34 he had
his master's and doctoral degrees in
Oriental
languages from the University of Leyden
in the years that followed and to his
mid to late 20s he was already
acknowledged by his peers as a respected
scholar who was taken very seriously and
with this particular skillset van Gulick
joined the Dutch Foreign Service and up
until his dying day got to enjoy all the
trappings and excitement of being a
diplomat and because of his fluency in
Japanese he started off as a secretary
the Tokyo Legation
so 1935 he headed east
taking the trans-siberian Express all
the way from Europe to the Orient and
his career was off and running it was
one of those postings where he had a lot
of downtime and used these long moments
to wander the streets alleys and nooks
of mid-1930s Tokyo the place was hopping
it had been four years since the Mukden
incident manchu quo was already in
operation the Nanjing Massacre was only
a couple years away in other words it
was quite a time to be living in a place
like Tokyo being a Western diplomat
fluent in Japanese including reading and
writing all the political machinations
going on in Tokyo during those critical
years then Gulick had box seats to that
drama anyone with a wandering and
curious spirit can go crazy in the
situation like this there were quite a
bit of let's just say things that Vann
Gulick would purchase and collect and
study till all hours of the morning now
for someone with interests as varied as
the art of scroll mounting to the
history of erotic arts there were quite
a lot of books
objet d'art and interesting curios he
acquired and accumulated and living in
the tumultuous times that he did he
amassed and lost two of his personal
collections and whatever he left behind
after his passing was auctioned off by
Christie's back in 1983 now just because
he was in Japan
didn't mean he couldn't continue with
China studies that particular yearning
to learn more remained undiminished
while in Japan van Gulick also began a
lifelong passion for playing the Gucci
this is a zipper like instrument with
seven strings with a history that went
back to the sanhuang moody the mythical
three sovereigns and five emperors in
other words it's old Confucius like many
literati of the day loved to play the
Chien it was part of a skill set a
proper gent
you know back in the Jo dynasty should
have they found plenty of these ancient
instruments in Chinese tombs dating back
to the Jo era now when you listen to the
GU Chien you're hearing music people
have been listening to since the
beginnings of Chinese recorded history
yeah Robert Van Gulick he'd love to play
the Chien and he studied it his whole
life so he made the most of this Japan
posting I cannot even imagine how swell
it must have been for a twenty-something
year old guy to be in his shoes at you
know at his age at that time at that
place witnessing all the goings-on in
Tokyo during the lead-up to and start of
World War two and one of his walkabouts
in 1940 he chanced upon this one book
while scavenging through some Tokyo
back-alley secondhand bookshop the book
was called Lutz attend sudachi unn for
curious cases from the time of empress
wu it concerned the exploits of someone
named
di Ren Jie there's this genre of Chinese
literature called Gong on Xiao chuan
which is usually translated as detective
fiction every culture has some form of
this or another and this book van gool a
chanced upon was one of those during the
Song Dynasty storytellers who plied
their trade in the town squares and tea
houses also used to tell these detective
stories and ever since it's been well
understandably a very popular genre
among the masses and not just in China
in the world of podcasting there's
dozens of these detective true crime
shows that are always being added to the
list of great shows dear ng at this
judge D he was a real person he lived
from 6:30 to 700 7th century China
that's the early Tong dynasty and D Ren
Jie he worked for woods attend the only
woman in Chinese history to rule as an
empress in her own name her
controversial life has served as the
richest most tasty and fascinating
fodder for countless novels plays games
movies TV miniseries not to mention
historical speculation she was Judge
Dee's boss now before we start ripping
through the fascinating and bizarre
world of these judge Dee detective
novels let's trace the timeline of Van
gulick sly and then we'll get back to
Dee Ren Jie judge Dee and van ghoul
accession to him this first diplomatic
posting of Van gula came to an abrupt
end in 1942 when the Dutch embassy in
Tokyo was evacuated following Pearl
Harbor and he spent some time in
Mozambique as a spy for the British
Secret Service or so he indicated once
and then the Dutch government sent him
to the temporary wartime capital of
China Chongqing as first secretary of
the Dutch embassy there and even though
that city was famously bombed non-stop
for all the years that the Nationalists
hunkered down there it didn't stop van
Gulick from once again making the most
of his time to further his studies and
prowl the markets for interesting
acquisitions of items of China cultural
interest
I read that even when everyone was
hiding out and trying to stay off the
streets to avoid Japanese aerial bombing
he'd still go out antique hunting or
checking out scrolls books and you know
whatever else caught his eye much of
what he had already accumulated during
his years in Japan had been lost in his
haste to vacate the Land of the Rising
Sun while in Chongqing he also got
married 1943 met a woman named Shui sure
Fung the daughter of a
senior nationalist government diplomat
also in Chongqing he was 33 years old
when they tied the knot this was a
loving marriage and family with four
children and they all got to see the
world thanks to the nature of van gool
--ax foreign service career but in
Chongqing he was another face in the
crowd of foreigners who followed the
nationalist government all the way up
the Yangtze to this today largest city
in the world no one of them anyway now
being in wartime Chongqing might be
exciting for anyone I guess but to a man
of Vann Gulick sakhaa Demick bent and
inquisitive mind caught up in those
historic times this must have been pure
scholarly bliss and all the while as he
indulged in all his intellectual
passions he served the Netherlands with
great enthusiasm besides the normal day
in day out diplomatic grind anything
that promoted friendship Commerce or
cultural relations of any kind between
his country the Netherlands and Japan or
China
he was always on board there are many
photos circulating a round of robert van
Gulick and all his diplomatic and
military finery yeah he was he was quite
a polished operator so he stayed in
chongqing until a year after the end of
the war and in 1946 he was recalled back
to the hague back home in the
netherlands he wallowed in all his
interests and cultural pursuits while he
continued his studies at leighton
university
this included chinese calligraphy and
his ongoing study of the qin the gucci
and i guess he could say even though he
was a westerner living in a 20th century
robert van Gulick so idealized the
traditional chinese Confucian
gentleman's life style and attitude the
Jin's a life he remained a closeted
traditional Confucian elite till he
breathed his last wherever he hung his
hat in the world he always had a perfect
scholars study filled with surviving
mementos of his
posting Scrolls hanging books and eBooks
the full thing even the when fonts about
the four treasures that no traditional
Chinese study room was complete without
be more sure yin brush ink paper and ink
stone van Gulick was no dilettante his
calligraphy was really quite good and he
really could play the chin and wrote
books on the subject following a stint
at the Dutch embassy in Washington DC
van gulickson ex posting took him back
to post-war Japan this was from 1949 to
1953 other postings were in New Delhi
Kuala Lumpur and then on to Lebanon I
was from 57 to 61 when he lived in
Beirut thanks to the political situation
beginning in 1958 it wasn't terribly
peaceful time there but relative to what
was to follow in the 70s he could say it
was Beirut was still called the Paris of
the Middle East
he served there is Dutch Foreign
Minister for the Middle East
the van gulick family lived in this
enormous residence that used to be a
small Ottoman palace and as far as his
writing went these were van gool it's
best years and then in 1965 van Gulick
capped off his diplomatic career as the
Dutch ambassador to Japan serving in
this capacity up until his death two
years later in 1967 it was probably
quite a joy to be someone of Van gulick
spread of knowledge about Japan's
language history and culture and to be
there and watch what was happening then
1965 66 67 if you recall 1964 the
Olympics were held in Tokyo and just
like the 2008 Beijing Olympics that are
sometimes called China's coming-out
party that's what these 64 Olympics were
for Japan that was the one where Bob
Hayes won golds and 100-meter dash and
four by 100 meter relay the only athlete
ladies and gentlemans
who could say they want Olympic gold and
a Super Bowl ring 1972 Cowboys
that was the diplomat part of Robert Van
Gulick but as I said he was also just as
much a scholar and a writer
we already saw how over the course of
his career in the Dutch foreign ministry
he enthusiastically pursued the life of
a Confucian scholar studying the
classics learning and aspiring to live
his life in the spirit of a right proper
Jin Zhu so as I already mentioned some
back alley in Tokyo 1940 they and gulick
had his fateful encounter with this book
roots attend sudachi on the four curious
cases from the time of empress wu half
of which had been translated and
published by van gulick as de come on in
1949 the english title was the
celebrated cases of judge d publishers
weren't lining up at van Gulick store to
get a crack at it so he used his own
money and printed 1200 copies of this
translation now this translation of this
book he found in a tokyo back alley
served as a kind of template for the 16
judge D novels that followed by and
large each of these novels would
invariably take him about six weeks to
write and he could say the research was
already done and stored in van gool
expanding access memory so he churned
them out rather fast now don't get
judged D mixed up with justice ball
there were also a whole bunch of tales
featuring this paragon of Chinese
jurisprudence justice Bao Bao Jung a
northern Sung era scholar official of
great renown for his judicial wisdom and
incorruptible 'ti he lived 999 to 1060 -
during the Ming Dynasty he also became a
popular figure in this Chinese detective
novel genre and he's of course also a
stalwart in traditional Chinese popular
culture so judge D although historically
he preceded judge Bao he became a
popular character later on in the ching
and these were probably the two most
famous judge detectives that made it
down to our day just as Bao of course
being the
more popular and well-known he had his
own miniseries back in 1993 2008 and
again in 2010 as I said the backdrop to
all these judge D stories was the Tong
dynasty during empress wu was time the
stories may have taken place during the
seventh century but the way that van
Gulick wrote the novel's was in a style
that was actually popular during the
Ming Dynasty when that anonymous author
wrote about judge Dee and whatzits yin
in the celebrated cases of Judge Dee
there were three cases under
investigation the case of the sealed
room the case of the Hidden Testament
and the case of the girl with a severed
head
all three are reported to investigated
by solved and adjudicated by judge Dee
and all in one solution the fictional
judge Dee nee was a district magistrate
who was also a detective a prosecutor
judge Jerry all-in-one
he performed undercover work dressed up
in disguises travelled incognito he
intimidated witnesses and roughed up the
uncooperative types he was a trained
swordsman and schooled in the lioe
the six arts that we discussed in that
history of philosophy series the skills
that a Confucian ginsa would have been
schooled in he was also quite
accomplished in chin or Chinese boxing
if you recall that from that recent
two-part martial arts episode and what
detective of this stature would be
complete without a trusty right-hand
Holmes had Watson The Green Hornet had
Kato Batman had Robin Judge Dee had
sergeant Hong Kong Liang hone was the
best known but there were three other
characters who appeared in all the judge
Dee novels and assisted him in crime
solving each one had a particular skill
set they were mahjong gel tie and talc
on sergeant Hong was always judge Dee's
most trusted confidant and quite a
master at martial arts mahjong and Chow
Tai were former
hood style outlaws the judge recruited
them and these two provide a judge
dear nga with occasional muscle towel
gun was a former conman and thief who
served as a fixer for all kinds of
situations it was quite a team and in
the true Chinese Confucian style as
judge D went about his business serving
the people he did it with nothing except
the highest ethics and in the noblest
fashion and of course just the right
amount of expected arrogance and sense
of entitlement given his station in life
in the books judge D is a big man broad
shouldered quite a physical presence
long flowing beard van Gulick he was the
same he too was a big man himself he
didn't have the long flowing beard but
he did have a nice mustache and goatee
and both men rose in their careers and
the service of their country van Gulick
starting off at a relatively low ranking
post and finished off his career as a
full ambassador to a major nation judge
d began as a magistrate and ended his
career as a minister of state Chinese
magistrates our penguin that was a very
powerful position back in judge Dee's
day you were not only the top judicial
official in the city you were also in
charge of maintaining order and
collecting taxes and Judge Dee and
Robert Van Gulick oh man that they both
ever loved Gibbons and playing the
guichen in all his homes while he lived
in Asia then Kulik always had those Apes
roaming freely around his residence they
were part of the family judge Diaz well
loved him the historical dear India he
came from tiger in Shaanxi province as I
mentioned he was born in 630 the reign
of tongue tight zone he came from a
scholar official family and followed
that familiar path that led to a series
of judicial positions during the reign
of the calzone emperor but it was really
during the reign of empress wu
particularly after the founding in 690
of her short-lived
Joe dynasty that judge dear nga came
into his own he first came to her notice
in 686 while serving out in gansu
province and later became a favorite of
Woods attend who promoted him in the
government throughout her controversial
reign he was tied very tightly to the
reign of empress wu and was one of her
chief officials his tomb is located in
law yung at by ma su white horse temple
china's first known buddhist temple
built in 68 AD you can visit it today
ever since his passing dear nga joined
the multitude of other major and minor
Chinese officials who because of their
personal qualities and the way they were
written into the official histories
became revered throughout the dynasties
as models for posterity and later on
during the Ming and Ching thanks to some
unknown author dear nga would also gain
immortality as a character in this
emerging Gong on style of detective
vernacular fiction fan Gulick he had
this hunch that even though Judge Dee
operated in a completely Chinese
environment with customs names and ways
of thinking and doing things that were
so foreign to 1950s Westerners despite
all then all the other glaring
differences between China and the
nations of the West there was still an
unsatisfied demand in these European
countries for this kind of fiction and
he thought he could pull it off and tell
the story of this ancient figure from
7th century China and tell it in a
Chinese style but make it appealing and
relatable to a reader who didn't grow up
with this culture and not an easy thing
to do so I guess he could point to this
as the genius of Robert Van Gulick
diplomat scholar writer he was
accomplished in all three but as the one
who presented this window into Chinese
culture to a non-academic audience he
had quite a large impact late fifties
early sixties
some of us in the internet age are so
jaded about the scope of our general
knowledge about China but in those days
when I was a kid you want to learn
about China if your parents couldn't
afford a set of encyclopedias you had to
go to the public library to look up
something or or have access to books
such as these judge D stories and this
was no Charlie Chan material either it
was written by someone who had nothing
except the highest possible respect and
love for Chinese culture and like anyone
who was passionate about anything he
wanted to share it with the world and
show everyone how great it was was this
cultural appropriation Orientalism in
the edward saeed sense was van Gulick
swerg a case of chinoiserie there's
certainly an argument for all that the
way van Gulick presented this Chinese
Gong on detective novel art form in a
western style like Xinhua Suri had
looked Chinese at first but when you
perused it more closely it wasn't but
she liked it so Van Gulick launched his
judge D career after receiving
halfway-decent feedback and
encouragement from his friends and
colleagues who read that translation of
that Ming novel based on the public
reaction he decided to start writing his
own novels that introduced the stern but
fair minded judge dear nga this original
Ming Arabic for curious cases from the
time of Empress Wu provided all the
inspiration for Van gulickson series his
first two books were the Chinese Bell
and the Chinese mais murders 14 more
followed he most definitely got it right
when he said there was a ready audience
for this kind of material he developed
quite a big fan base who bought every
new title when it came out the four most
famous titles that got the whole than
gulick treatment were these two plus the
Chinese nail murders and the Chinese
gold murders these were his
earliest works they came out between
1956 and 61 and for these first ones he
poured everything he had into them all
his gusto and scholarly devotion the
style of writing is constant throughout
and all of these titles are standalone
stories you don't necessarily have to
read them in order and one doesn't
depend on the other to prop up the plot
one of an gulick strayed Marx became his
prodigious use of sex and illustrations
featuring naked women and various poses
in life and death these drawings too
were done in the style that emerged
during the Ming Dynasty 1368-1644 and
judge Dee was no James Bond who you know
always got a piece you'll see even with
all the sex and carnal scenes injected
into the book and the good judge often
having to mingle with more than a
handful of prostitutes and damsels in
distress' you never see him succumb to
temptation a Ginsu with a capital jun he
always remained true to his three wives
his publisher was the one who insisted
on the new drawing on the cover so then
Gulick obliged him and henceforth did
all the drawings for all the books
himself for the covers and inside
illustrations Robert Van Gulick was
writing these books in the 1950s and 60s
it wasn't the Victorian age but these
books because of the nudity portrayed on
the cover and inside and the racy scenes
were branded by most critics as literary
pornography and with all of them smutty
pictures on the cover and in between mom
and dad always had to make sure they
didn't leave these judged ebooks out in
the open for the kids to see these books
got stashed in the nightstand next to
the bed not on a family bookshelf in the
rec room Van Gulick rarely disappointed
one could always rely on the plot to
contain plenty of chili and spices
intermixed with all this Tong dynasty
murder mystery and double-crossing the
critics decimated him this kind of going
on literature he didn't receive any
respect during the Ming
and Qing dynasties and Van Gulick had to
endure the same negative reviews and
criticism in his time but the masses
they liked him he's judge D detective
stories found their mark with a lot of
fans and not only with fan gulick
Stargate audience Western people anyone
in the West including Chinese Americans
Chinese Canadians overseas Chinese
everywhere many who chanced upon these
Judge Dean novels whole heartedly
embrace these books what was there not
to like about a Chinese crime-fighting
hero from the 7th century Vann Gulick
was able to bring to the west this
Chinese hero with all these amazing
qualities about him who was Confucian
cool and wise but at the same time knew
how to use violence and be a tough guy
in the line of duty like most scholars
and academics Vann Gulick had a thing
about accuracy
these judged II novels provided a
pathway to readers into this imaginary
world infused with Van gulick
scholarship were real-life historical
figures mixed with all kinds of genuine
character types created in van gool it's
imaginary
it all took place during this fabled
period of Chinese history during the
Tong dynasty this time of woods attend
empress wu they came from his
imagination and they didn't and the
stories weren't manufactured in van gool
it's mind he actually learned of most of
the cases from ancient documents all he
did was take the real-life case from
over a thousand years ago and embellish
it and use his writing style to finish
it off in 1956 fan Gulick had translated
a 13th century manual of jurisprudence
and detection called
Tong Jian B shirt in English Van Goulet
called it parallel cases from under the
pear tree and these crimes that Van
Gulick wrote about were all civil in
nature not conspiracies or grand acts
against the state or the Emperor
they were about murder rape grisly
crimes of all shapes and sizes
that was always more popular with the
masses using the original formula from
the celebrated cases of Judge D in all
subsequent van Gulick novels there's
always a three-ring circus three cases
always going on simultaneously often
interconnected you see then gulick had
this thing about detective novels met
well in real life crime solving didn't
happen one case after the other crimes
were being committed every day and there
was always a need to work on multiple
cases in any one given time and in judge
Dee's case as per the formula from that
first celebrated cases of Judge D
translated by Van gulick there were
always three stories going on that the
judge and his gang of four were working
on and buddhism taoism van Gulick was
most interested in both religion and his
books always had plenty of Taoist and
Buddhist characters often the unsavory
type judge D himself being Confucian
through and through perhaps had a kind
of built-in disdain or skepticism and it
was probably more directed against
Buddhism since that was a foreign import
rather than a homegrown religion such as
Taoism in fact judge D had a rather deep
fascination about Taoism the novels that
followed up until his death had names
like the night of the tiger murder in
Canton the Phantom of the temple murder
on New Year's Eve the Emperor's pearl
and his final title published a month
before his passing the necklace and the
calabash they weren't any different from
Miss Marple
Hercule Poirot or Sherlock Holmes they
were classic whodunits in the judge d
books one could get a nice vernacular
dose of Chinese culture injected with
all the scholarship and authenticity
that someone with van gool Alex back
round could bring to the reader who
knows if Van Gulick strip shion's of
early tongue society were on the mark or
not but he didn't just make things up
the fiction was written based on
historical evidence gleaned through his
own research
some people might have turned their
noses up at van gool ex-work but it's
important to give him credit for being
this this channel that was able to
authoritative Lee package up this sliver
of Chinese culture and present it to a
non Chinese audience an audience of mid
twentieth century China curious people
who didn't have the interest level or
smarts to read the books and papers
churned out by you know the China
academics of the world for most these
books and others like them were the only
window to the Far East Robert Van Gulick
didn't limit his writing to these judged
II detective novels I mentioned his
interest covered everything about
traditional China not so much the 20th
century though and he wrote these essays
short stories and not a few coffee table
books as well
his most famous one perhaps as zhang guo
cooled i find they call the english
title being a preliminary survey of
chinese sex and society from 1500 BC to
1644 ad his lore of the Chinese loot was
a labor of love written about this
instrument this GU Qing GU means ancient
this ancient Qin that he just loved to
play and judge d2 he also produced a
book on Chinese pictorial art and a book
on Gibbons and that came out right when
he passed in 1967 besides all these
better known obscure works he published
a bunch of other vanity projects and
limited editions that he would self
print and pass out to his friends and
colleagues
he was extremely prolific as far as what
was so characteristic about these
Chinese style gun detective novels van
Gulick identified five things that he
said described how Chinese crime stories
and variably went first as I said the
detective is usually the local
magistrate who is solving multiple
crimes at any one time
second you always know right from the
get-go who the criminal is so it's told
from that angle of already knowing
whodunit third and most famous I guess
you could
a supernatural events are common ghosts
have walk on rolls all the time
in Chinese detective stories they were
under present van gool accused them more
sparingly in his novels fourth it's
inevitable that philosophical
digressions get woven into the fabric of
the story and sometimes whole passages
for classics are read it's pretty
tedious the last thing that van gulick
said is characteristic of a Chinese
crime novel was that the length of the
dramatis personae is as long as your arm
lots of characters more than you're used
to and one other thing you know when
punishment ever got meted out it was
rarely ever not gruesome in his 16
judged II novels Van Gulick stuck to
this formula that made these Chinese
going on detective stories so compelling
and addictive he had come to master the
Chinese style of writing and tweaked it
in ways that he thought would make it
more recognizable or relatable to a
foreign reader that was where his
specialness lay he wanted to offer
something interesting and authentic that
showed his Western readers a sunny side
of Chinese culture
he was cognizant of all the damage
content like fu-manchu's for example was
doing in leading the masses to believe
that Chinese were all sinister and it
put Chinese culture in a dark light just
like laszlo montgomery he supplied lists
of all the chinese names to give his
readers a helping hand
besides the drawings van Gulick also
supplied illustrated maps of all these
fictional locales where the stories took
place he had all the bases covered the
readers weren't left stranded with all
these Chinese names as part of the
research that went into this episode I
checked on YouTube to see if any halfway
decent judge D movies were available for
free there's a recent one with Andy Lau
called detective D and the mystery of
the phantom flame choi harks 2010
release when a whole bunch of awards
Andy Lau as Judge Dee Carina Lau is
wootsat tien and fight sequences
choreograph by the great samo Hong I
only saw bits and pieces of this film
and as I'm recording this in August 2018
the number two movie in China right now
is derange edge or Sadat Ian Wong judge
D and the four heavenly kings Choi hark
again new from Hawaii brothers I should
have mentioned this but judge D
detective D interchangeable you say
tomato and I say tomato
in this latest film the oranges lined up
against woods at 10:00 lots of CGI looks
promising but it's only showing in two
theaters near me and the word near is in
quotation marks if you know what I mean
the movie I found for free on YouTube in
its entirety was a campy 1974 judge D
film based on van gool exposed and the
monastery murders starring none other
than one of the great yellow face actors
of his day good ol Kai day lovers of the
original Hawaii five-o will remember Kai
day he played Stephen danos nemesis whoa
fat he was also four finger wu in noble
house look Chinese to me how was I
supposed to know his real name was
Kenneth dickerson but that
anglo-egyptian Sudanese mix that he had
now the producers in Tinseltown said
who's gonna know and what a stage name
like Kai day that'll do the trick he
didn't have the long flowing beard in
the movie but he sported a nice little
scraggly one and all three of his wives
who are also in the movie none of them
seemed to mind
there's even a scene of all four of them
in the sack I'm gonna put a link to this
judge D film on my website you get a
nice 40-year old Hollywood makeover of a
van Gulick novel Macko irene sue ki Luke
and one of my all-time faves the great
James Hong still going strong at 89
years old after do an episode on him see
if he can catch the two scenes in the
movie where judge D is shown bowing with
incense to the altar of his ancestors
and the painting of his ancestors that
that well-known one of hongou
so the Han Dynasty founder Robert Van
Gulick once said to a close confident
judge D is me
despite the 12 centuries that separated
them these two did have several
similarities least of which were a love
of Gibbons and the Chien in his writing
he lived his life vicariously through
the crime solving a steer ng F and he
conducted his life as he believed judged
II might have he once wrote quote
doesn't everybody lead a double life on
the one hand the actual daily routine on
the other the life we imagine we ought
to be living if we could only summon
that extra bit of courage end quote
he could hardly find a photo of van
gulick where he wasn't puffin on
something or other
he loved his cigs and they ultimately
did him in he died a lung cancer in 1967
while serving as the Dutch ambassador to
Japan it was only 57 he crammed all that
scholarship and achievement into what
was well even then half a century ago
considered a rather truncated life well
after he passed his books sort of went
out of print and he soon became more or
less forgotten except for a niche
audience of you know guys like Nix
Tambor but in 1976 his first work that
1956 translation of D Kong on the
celebrated cases of Judge D it got a
re-release and from the wave of
popularity that emerged from that first
book a whole new generation of judge D
lovers gave an Gulick a second coming
this fuelled enthusiasm for the whole
back catalogue and now you can pretty
much get everything he wrote on Amazon
and other online booksellers I'll put a
link to as many as possible and you know
list them all by published date and I'm
not saying Van Gulick was responsible
for judge D becoming a multimedia
superstar in the greater Chinese
community but well I'm sure all those
detective novels he produced had at
least some impact in his role in Chinese
popular culture
so that was Robert Hans van Kulik hooray
for the Netherlands here at the CHP you
left to indulge me as I bring you all
these episodes that feature all these
Western scholars and past lovers of
China Robert Hart Carl crow Ricci Shaw
Vaughn Bell and Ferb East Sydney
rittenberg Norman Bethune Backhouse
Needham Jack Jones William Messner some
were more historic than others but
sometimes it's interesting to talk about
Chinese history using these foreigners
as a prism to view it well for me anyway
so that's gonna be at my friends thanks
to all of you who made it this far
please dispose of properly Laszlo
Montgomery here signing off from a
baking hot day here in LA telling you
even in southern Libya or Algeria they'd
be complaining 105 outside wherever it
is by you I hope you're doing great and
enjoying this nice summer more next time
I assure you take care everyone and do
consider coming back next time for
another exciting episode of the China
history podcast
you